# Overview

| Developed by        | Guardrails AI |
| ------------------- | ------------- |
| Date of development | Aug 16, 2024  |
| Validator type      | Data Leakage  |
| Blog                |               |
| License             | Apache 2      |
| Input/Output        | Input         |

## Description

Validates that output does not have banned words, using fuzzy search. Useful for preventing internal codenames
from leaking.

### Intended Use

### Requirements

- Dependencies:

  - guardrails-ai>=0.4.0
  - fuzzysearch

- Foundation model access keys:
  - OPENAI_API_KEY

## Installation

```bash
$ guardrails hub install hub://guardrails/ban_list
```

## Usage Examples

### Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import BanList
from guardrails import Guard

# Setup Guard
guard = Guard().use(
    BanList(banned_words=['codename','athena'])
)

guard.validate("Hello world! I really like Python.")  # Validator passes
guard.validate("I am working on a project with the code name A T H E N A")  # Validator fails
```

**`__init__(self, on_fail="noop")`**

<ul>
Initializes a new instance of the BanList class.

**Parameters**

- **`banned_words`** _(List[str])_: A list of banned words to check for in output.
- **`max_l_dist`** _(int)_: Maximum Levenshtein distance for fuzzy search. Defaults to 1.
- **`on_fail`** _(str, Callable)_: The policy to enact when a validator fails. If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.
</ul>
<br/>

**`validate(self, value, metadata) -> ValidationResult`**

<ul>
Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters**

- **`value`** _(Any)_: The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** _(dict)_: A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. Keys and values must match the expectations of this validator.
  | Key | Type | Description | Default |
  | --- | --- | --- | --- |
  | `key1` | String | Description of key1's role. | N/A |
  </ul>
